# Scrapwala

## Software Engineering(UCS503) Project
## Thapar University


India has a significant unorganized sector consisting of highly localized small-scale “kabbadiwalas” or “scrap-collectors(raddiwalas)” as they are popularly known. They are scrap dealers who buy domestic scrap and junk, such as old newspapers, and discarded electronic and metallic items by weight from the homes of people.
The way it works in most parts of the country is that a scrap-collectors(raddiwala) goes around from place to place calling for people willing to sell their scrap and recyclable waste and is thus dependent on whether the person who is willing to sell hears their call. This is a highly inefficient process for everyone involved. The scrap-collectors(raddiwala) have to spend a lot of time and energy finding potential customers, and for people who have scrap at their homes many times, it simply becomes easier to dump it in the trash rather than waiting for a scrap-collectors(raddiwala) to come by and buy it from them. This is a rampant problem and ultimately leads to a lot of potentially recyclable material being sent to dumping grounds instead of being collected, recycled and reused.
Our product, Scrapwala.com intends to solve this by being a platform that bridges the gap between the scrap-collectors(raddiwala) and the people with domestic scrap at their homes connecting them for their benefit. Whenever someone wants to sell their scrap, they can easily book a scrap dealer, aka a scrap-collectors(raddiwala) registered with our platform to come to their place at a convenient time, along with a fixed rate chart so that they know exactly how much money to expect. Consequently, scrap dealers close to the location of the seller would be notified, and the first person to accept it gets the contract.
In addition to being extremely convenient, our product also solves an equally pertinent issue: centralizing, standardizing, and bringing under one roof the significantly decentralized and disorganized sector of scrap-collectors(raddiwalas). We would be providing all our registered scrap-collectors(raddiwalas) with standardized electronic weighing equipment, modern and sturdy equipment for transporting the scrap, clean uniforms, and so on. Along with that, there would be a uniform, transparent and well-defined rate chart for every type of domestic scrap.
Our Website will be designed to have the capability to make lives simpler and contribute positively to our society, and with the same spirit, our site aspires to contribute to the goal of making our planet greener and promoting recycling and reusing.
